04-10146-100§2

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CONFIDENTIAL

13 October 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Operations Support Branch

FROM : Joseph P. Mirabile
	Operations Support Branch

SUBJECT: SHERMAN, Adrian Fisher, Jr.
	#54 621

1. On 25 September 1978, a call was received in the
Security Duty Office from James A. Sherman, Subject's brother,
advising that Subject suffered a fatal heart attack on
23 September 1978 at his apartment in Monterey, California.
Subject was sixty years of age and had a history of previous
heart trouble.

2. Mr. Sherman was previously of interest to this
Agency as a military detailee, 1952 - 1954, when he was
serving at Clark Air Force Base, the Philippines, as a
Major in the United States Army. After leaving the Army,
he worked for Pan American Airlines for approximately 13
years and then as an investigator for the State Attorney
General's Office in Miami, Florida. He has been of interest
to DCD and FRD in San Francisco, California, since April 1977.
FRD's operational interest was as an access agent to a Saudi
Arabian of interest to the San Francisco Base. 

3. On 23 September 1978, Subject's body was discovered
by an FRD case officer who had arrived at the Monterey,
California, apartment for an operational meeting. The
apartment house resident manager gained access to the apartment.
Subsequent access was allowed to an emergency ambulance squad,
Police officers and the deputy coroner.

4. Assistance has been rendered to FR Base by
San Francisco Field Office personnel in this matter.
Gordon Gregory SAC/SFFO, was apprised on the circumstances
on 25 September 1978 and subsequently made contact with the
Chief, FR Base. Subject's son, who was traveling cross-
country by auto at the time of the death, arrived in the
area on 27 September with two sisters and was contacted by
a representative of the San Francisco Field Office. He is

21499
E2 IMPDET

CL BY 064537

CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL

reported to be very cooperative, aware of need for discretion
and secrecy and proud of his father's relationship with this
Agency.

5. The only aspect of this incident, which may be of
continuing security concern, is that the son recalls that
in May 1978, while assisting his father in moving some
Personal effects, he remembers seeing. a written plan to
assassinate Fidel Castro. The son said that it had been
Prepared by his father in the early 1970's when he was
working in Florida but at a time when he had no Agency
association. At this time the paper is still missing.
It may have been recently destroyed by the Subject or, the
possibility exists, it may have been stolen by someone
having access to the apartment. According to Subject's
son, Several other items were missing, including a money
clip containing a $100 bill that his father always kept,
Randall knife, a gold pen and pencil set and a microwave
oven. After notifying the police of the missing personal
items, Subject's son received the knife from the resident
manager who claims to have found it in some weeds. Subject's
son suspects that the resident manager may have been responsible
for the theft of the personal items, but he has now resolved
to drop the entire issue.

6. Foreign Resources Division has advised that the
DCI has been briefed on this case. It is therefore felt
that no further Office of Security action is required at this
time other than to monitor the case for 60-90 days to
determine if any new developments occur.

signature
Joseph P. Mirabile

Distribution:
Orig. - Subject's file
1 = OSB Chrono
OS/PSI/SSD/ODB/JPMirabile/csn

CONFIDENTIAL
